[DOCS] Add documentation for JWT realm (#85189)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/jwt-realm.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[jwt-realm]]
=== JWT Authentication

JWT realms allow reuse of certain `identification tokens` for {es} authentication and authorization.
JWT realms are only intended to use with JWTs from existing, external workflows.
The format of those JWTs must be similar to Open ID Connect (OIDC) ID Tokens.
See <<external-workflow-requirements>>.

> TIP: If the external workflow does not exist, use `api` tokens instead.

Author: Moved tip after OIDC, added link, and added two sentences. Please double check it and let me know if it is resolved.

TIP: If the external workflow is Open ID Connect, and {es} is the OIDC RP, use `oidc` realm instead.

[[external-workflow-requirements]]
==== External Workflow Requirements

Consider workflows that are completely separate from {es}.
They can be Open ID Connect, bespoke, or other, as long as they use JWS JWTs for an `identification token`.
In those workflows, end-users interact with a third-party application, and authenticate via a third-party authentication application.

Different tokens are created within those workflows for authentication, authorization, and identification.
Reusing the authentication or authorization tokens outside of those workflows may not be desirable.
However, reusing the `identification token` is possible.

JWT realm allows reusing the `identification token` for {es} authentication and authorization.

> JWT format is similar to Open ID Connect (OIDC) ID Tokens, with some differences. See <<jwt-validation>>.

Author: Updated to resolve this feedback. Let me know if it is resolved.

[[jwt-authentication-requirements]]
==== JWT Authentication Requirements

Two credentials are required by JWT realms, a client credential and an end-user identity token.
Both must be validated separately, because the external client and end-user are separate entities.

See <<client-authentication>> and <<jwt-validation>>.

[[client-authentication]]
==== Client authentication

Client authentication is one of two credentials required by JWT realms.
See <<jwt-validation>> for the other credential.

JWT realms support two client authentication settings: `shared_secret` and `none`.

IMPORTANT: Client authentication is enabled by default in JWT realms.

> If client authentication type is `shared_secret`, JWT realm requires a request header `ES-Client-Authentication`.
> The value must be a case-insensitive match to the realm's secure string setting `client_authentication.shared_secret`.

Reviewer: As above, we should aim for a little more guidance, a little less statement-of-fact.

```suggestion
If client authentication type is `shared_secret`, the client is authenticated 
using a HTTP request header that must match a pre-configured secret value.
The client must provide this shared secret with every request in the `ES-Client-Authentication` header.
The value must be a case-insensitive match to the realm's <<secure-settings,secure setting>>.
 `client_authentication.shared_secret`.
```

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

If client authentication type is `none`, the request header `ES-Client-Authentication` is ignored.

> WARNING: Client authentication can be disabled, but it is not recommended.

Reviewer: This wording may be ambiguous to some readers. It intends to mean "disabling is not recommended" but could be read "client authentication is not recommended".

```suggestion
WARNING: Disabling client authentication is possible, but strongly discouraged.
```

[[jwt-validation]]

> ==== JWT validation

Reviewer: I need to drop off here.

For the JWT validation section, I think we need to make a choice as to whether we want pure reference docs such as

- The `aud` value from the JWT must be an exact case-sensitive match to the realm setting `allowed_audiences`

or more generic statements such as 

- the JWT will be validated according to the JWT and OIDC specifications, in accordance with the configured <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

I think I prefer the former, and it looks like you've gone in that direction as well. My inclination is that if we're going to do that we should lean into it, and just list the validation behaviour in that reference style, rather than trying to write descriptive paragraphs.

Author: I made some edits. Have a look to see if they are OK.

[role="xpack"]
[[jwt-realm]]
=== JWT authentication

beta::[]

{es} can be configured to trust JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) that are issued as an 
authentication credential from an external service.

When a JWT realm is used to authenticate with {es}, a distinction is made
between the _client_ that is connecting to {es}, and the _user_ on whose behalf
the request should run. The JWT identifies the user, and a separate credential
is used to authenticate the client.

A common scenario that uses JWTs is when an existing front-end application uses 
OpenID Connect (OIDC) as an authentication method, and then accesses {es}
on behalf of the authenticated user.

TIP: If the front-end application does not exist, you can use the
<<token-authentication-services>> instead.

[[jwt-realm-oidc]]
==== JWT uses OIDC workflows

> JWT authentication in {es} is derived from OIDC workflows, where users initiate
> contact with an OIDC Relying Party (RP) and are redirected to authenticate with
> an OIDC Provider (OP). Separate tokens are issued at different steps in the
> workflow to represent authentication, authorization, and identification.
> 
> When users authenticate to the OP, they receive a _grant token_, which they
> present to the RP as proof of authentication. The RP then asks the OP to verify
> the  grant token and exchange it for two tokens: an _ID token_ and an
> _access token_.

Reviewer 2: This is not necessarily true.
There are a lot of different OIDC flows, and the one described here is just one of them. The JWT realm supports them all, and I think that it may create confusion to the reader.

I'd rather use a more generic content, something like this:
```suggestion
JWT authentication in {es} is derived from OIDC workflows, where different tokens may be issued by an OIDC Provider (OP). One of these tokens is called the _ID token_ and uses the JWT format.
```

Reviewer 3: I'll change this to read:
>JWT authentication in {es} is derived from OIDC workflows, where different tokens can be issued by an OIDC Provider (OP). One possible token is an _ID token_, which uses the JWT format.

> The ID token is a JWT, so the encoding is transparent; the other tokens are
> opaque. If the ID token is presented to a JWT realm, {es} can use it to

Reviewer 2: It may be hard to get what "transparent" means here, and which other tokens we're talking about (given my previous suggestion to simplify and generalize the context). I don't think this is relevant here and it could be removed.

```suggestion
If the ID token is presented to a JWT realm, {es} can use it to
```

Reviewer 3: I'll change this to read:
>If the ID token is presented to a JWT realm, {es} can use it to authenticate, identify, and authorize an individual user.

If client authentication type is `shared_secret`, the client is authenticated
using a HTTP request header that must match a pre-configured secret value.
The client must provide this shared secret with every request in the `ES-Client-Authentication` header.
The value must be a case-insensitive match to the realm's <<secure-settings,secure setting>> `client_authentication.shared_secret`.
See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

If client authentication type is `none`, the request header `ES-Client-Authentication` is ignored.

WARNING: Disabling client authentication is possible, but strongly discouraged.

[[jwt-validation]]
==== JWT validation

The supported JWT encoding is JSON Web Signature (JWS). The JWS header and JWS signature are validated using OpenID Connect ID Token validation rules.
Some validation is customizable via <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

JWS header `alg` is required, and must be in the realm's allow list. JWS header `typ` is optional.

JWT claims `iss`, `aud`, `sub`, `exp`, `iat`, `nbf`, and `auth_time` are validated using OpenID Connect ID Token validation rules.
JWT Claims `principal`, `groups`, `name`, `mail`, and `dn` are validated using {es} validation rules.

> IMPORTANT: `nonce` claim is ignored; it is only applicable inside an OIDC workflow, not application to JWT realm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: `nonce` claim is ignored; it is only applicable inside an OIDC workflow, not to the JWT realm.
```

* The _principal_ claim from the JWT is required, and defaults to `sub`. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.principal`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.principal_pattern` to extract a substring.

* The _groups_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.groups`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.groups_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _name_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.name`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.name_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _mail_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.mail`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.mail_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _dn_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.dn`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.dn_pattern` to extract a substring value.

[[jwt-authorization]]

> ==== JWT Realm Authorization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== JWT realm authorization
```

JWT realm authorization supports role mapping API or delegated authorization realms.

WARNING: JWT realm does not support using the role_mapping.yml file.

> ==== JWT Realm Authorization via Role Mapping API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== JWT realm authorization via Role Mapping API
```

This should be nested under the previous section

Reviewer 3: I'm still working through these latter sections and will next them accordingly.

* `principal` claim: JWT claim in the form of a string is used as the {es} user's principal string value.
* `dn` claim: JWT claim in the form of a Distinguished Name string is used as the {es} user's DN string value.
* `groups` claim: JWT claim in the form of a comma separate list is used as the {es} user's groups list value.
* `metadata` claims: JWTs claims in the form of strings, numbers, booleans, and collections are used as the {es} user's metadata, formatted as `metadata.jwt_claim_<key>` = `<value>` pairs.

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

===== Example JWT Realm Role Mapping Rule

Example JWT realm role mapping rule.

[source,text]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /_security/role_mapping/jwt1_users
{
  "roles" : [ "user" ],
  "rules" : { "all" : [
      { "field": { "realm.name": "jwt1" } },
      { "field": { "username": "principalname1" } }
      { "field": { "dn": "CN=Principal Name 1,DC=example.com" } }
      { "field": { "groups": "group1" } }
      { "field": { "metadata.jwt_claim_other": "other1" } }
  ] },
  "enabled": true
}
--------------------------------------------------

> ==== JWT Realm Authorization via Delegated Authorization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== JWT realm authorization via authorization delegation
```

.If Delegated Realms are used for authorization, this claim is available for roles lookup.
* `principal` claim: JWT claim in the form of a string is used as the {es} user's principal value.

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

WARNING: When Delegated Authorization is enabled in JWT realm, claims for `groups`, `dn`, and `metadata` not used for the {es} user's values.
         Only the JWT `principal` claim is passed through to Delegated Authorization realms.
         The Delegated Authorization realms become responsible for populating all of the {es} user's values, not the JWT realm.

> ===== Example JWT Realm Delegated Authorization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
====== Example JWT realm delegated authorization:
```

[role="xpack"]
[[jwt-realm]]
=== JWT Authentication

beta::[]

{es} can be configured to support user authentication using externally issued _JSON Web Tokens_ (JWTs).

The JWT realm is intended for uses cases where an external service generates
JSON Web Tokens, and {es} should trust these JWTs as an authentication credential.

A common scenario that leads to this use case is where a front-end application uses
Open ID Connect (OIDC) as an authentication method, and then accesses {es} on
behalf of the logged in user.

NOTE: {es} provides a <<oidc-realm,OpenID Connect realm>> as well as the JWT realm. The `oidc` realm
provides stronger security guarantees and should be preferred for any use case where {es} is able to act
as an OIDC _Relying Party_ (RP). In particular the `oidc` realm is the only supported way to enable OpenID
Connect authentication in Kibana.

TIP: If the front-end application does not exist, use `access` tokens instead. See <<token-authentication-services>>.

>      Other bearer token options are available if accessing {es} directly, without a front-end application.

Author: Removed it.

     JWT realm is for when that front-end application already exists, and you want to integrate that

>      front-end application with {es}.

Author: Commit edit suggestion.

A simple JWT realm configuration is as follows:

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt1:
  order: 3 <1>
  client_authentication.type: shared_secret <2>
  allowed_issuer: "https://issuer.example.com/jwt/" <3>
  allowed_audiences: [ "https://app.example.net/" ]
  allowed_signature_algorithms: [RS256] <4>
  pkc_jwkset_path: example.jwkset
  claims.principal: sub <5>
------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The realm `order` controls the order in which the configured realms are checked
    when authenticating a user.
<2> The `client_authentication.type` setting is described below in <<jwt-client-authentication>>
<3> The `allowed_issuer` and `allowed_audiences` settings are described below in
    <<jwt-validation>>
<4> The `allowed_signature_algorithms` and `pkc_jwkset_path` settings are
    described below in <<jws-signature-validation>>

> <5> The `claims.principal` setting is described below in <<jwt-authorization>>

Author: Added examples. Have a look to see if they are OK.

[[external-workflow-requirements]]
==== External Workflow Requirements

> JWT realm functionality is derived from OIDC ID Connect (OIDC) workflows. A high-level understanding of OIDC Tokens helps with JWT realm.

Author: Renamed all instances of `Open ID` to `OpenID` in the doc.

In OIDC workflows, end-users initiates contact with an OIDC Relying Party (RP), and are redirected to authenticate to an OIDC Provider (OP).
Separate tokens are issued at different steps to represent authentication, authorization, and identification.

.OIDC Tokens
* Grant Token: End-users authenticate to the OIDC OP, receive an OIDC Grant Token, and present it to the OIDC RP as proof of authentication.
* ID Token: OIDC RPs ask the OIDC OP to verify the OIDC Grant Token, and exchange it for two tokens. One is an OIDC ID Token.
* Access Token: OIDC RPs ask the OIDC OP to verify the OIDC Grant Token, and exchange it for two tokens. One is an OIDC Access Token.

IMPORTANT: The OIDC ID Token is a JWT. The encoding is transparent to the OIDC RP, the Grant and Access tokens are opaque values.

When the OIDC RP performs actions on behalf of the end-user, it can make calls into some back-end applications.

.If the back-end application is:
* part of OIDC OP workflow, the OIDC RP presents the OIDC Access token, and the back-end application asks the OIDC OP to verify authorization.
* {es} (not part of OIDC OP work), the OIDC RP must present the OIDC ID Token.

> 

Author: I wanted to clarify ID Tokens being transparent, and Grant and Access Tokens being opaque, because a question came up during design about using Access token. If not stated in the docs, I think the question about trying to use Access token instead of ID Token will come up again.

> 

Author: I removed the paragraph about OpenID making non-ES calls, and I tried to simplify the remaining test a little bit.

A JWT realm will validate the contents of the OIDC ID Token, and use it to authenticate, identify, and authorize the end-user.

NOTE: Since JWTs are acquired external to {es}, a bespoke workflow can be used instead of OIDC workflow.
      However, the JWT format must still be similar to OIDC ID Tokens. See <<jwt-validation>>.

[[jwt-authentication-requirements]]

> ==== JWT Authentication Requirements

Author: I made a first pass through to reduce the number of sections. Need to wait for the rendering in the CI job before I know if it needs more refinements.

An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.groups_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _name_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.name`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.name_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _mail_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.mail`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.mail_pattern` to extract a substring value.

* The _dn_ claim from the JWT is optional. It is configurable via the realm setting `claims.dn`.
An optional regular expression can be configured via the realm setting `claims.dn_pattern` to extract a substring value.

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

[[jws-signature-validation]]
==== JWS signature validation

Signatures are validated using JWS (JSON Web Signature) validation rules.

[[jwt-authorization]]
==== JWT Realm Authorization

JWT realm authorization supports role mapping API or delegated authorization realms.

WARNING: JWT realm does not support using the role_mapping.yml file.

> ==== JWT Realm Authorization via Role Mapping API

Reviewer 2: I would move this content in the configuration example section, since it's almost mandatory to make the setup useful in real scenarios.

> ==== JWT Realm Authorization via Role Mapping API

Reviewer 2: I would move this content in the configuration example section, since it's almost mandatory to make the setup useful in real scenarios.

way to enable OIDC authentication in {kib}.

[[jwt-realm-configuration]]
==== Configure {es} to use a JWT realm

To use JWT authentication, you create the realm in the `elasticsearch.yml` file
to configure it within the {es} authentication chain.

The JWT realm has a few mandatory settings, plus optional settings that are
described in <<ref-jwt-settings,JWT realm settings>>. The following example
includes the most common settings. After defining settings, use the
{ref}/elasticsearch-keystore.html[`elasticsearch-keystore`] tool to store
values in the {es} keystore.

NOTE: The example values are not intended for every use case, and are included
only to highlight some common settings for this realm.

Client authentication is enabled by default for the JWT realms. Disabling client 
authentication is possible, but strongly discouraged.

. Add your JWT realm to the `elasticsearch.yml` file:
+
--
[source, yaml]
----
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt1:
  order: 3
  client_authentication.type: shared_secret
  allowed_issuer: "https://issuer.example.com/jwt/"
  allowed_audiences: [ "8fb85eba-979c-496c-8ae2-a57fde3f12d0" ]
  allowed_signature_algorithms: [RS256,HS256]

>   pkc_jwkset_path: jwt/jwkset.json

Reviewer 2: Uhm, frankly I strongly prefer this relative path for a few reasons:
- it's consistent with other snippets (e.g. oidc and saml existing guides)
- we don't want to make people feel that they need to use that "external" path
- we cannot guarantee that Elasticsearch has read access to external paths, leading to errors

We should already have somewhere a note that all relative paths are using the config dir as the basedir.

* Claims - Contains data about the calling user or application.
* Signature - The raw data that's used to validate the token.

[source,text]
----
Header: {"typ":"JWT","alg":"HS256"}
Claims: {"aud":"aud8","sub":"security_test_user","iss":"iss8","exp":4070908800,"iat":946684800}
Signature: UnnFmsoFKfNmKMsVoDQmKI_3-j95PCaKdgqqau3jPMY
----

This example illustrates a partial decoding of a JWT. The validity period is
from 2000 to 2099, inclusive. JWTs typically have a validity period shorter than
100 years. The signature in this example is deterministic because the header,
claims, and HMAC key are fixed. 

The supported JWT encoding is JSON Web Signature (JWS). The JWS header and JWS
are validated using OpenID Connect ID Token validation rules. Some validation is 
customizable through <<ref-jwt-settings,JWT realm settings>>.

[[jwt-validation-header]]
===== Header claims
The header claims indicate the token type and how the token was signed.

`alg`::
(Required, String) Indicates the algorithm that was used to sign the token, such
as `HS256`.

`typ`::
(Optional, String) Indicates the token type, which must be `JWT`.

[[jwt-validation-oidc]]

> ===== Payload claims validated by OIDC

Reviewer 2: This sounds too long for a section header, IMHO. What about just "Payload claims validation" or "Validated payload claims"?

> ===== Payload claims validated by OIDC

Reviewer 3: I think that we can add a header for **Payload claims** and then use sub-headings for OIDC and Elasticsearch claims. Within the OIDC section, we can mention that these claims are validated by a subset of OIDC ID token rules.

```
===== Payload claims
====== OIDC payload claims
====== Elasticsearch payload claims
```

OIDC ID tokens contain several claims, which provide information about the user
who is issuing the token, and the token itself. The following claims are
validated using OIDC ID token rules.

NOTE: You can relax validation of any of the time-based claims by setting 
`allowed_clock_skew`. This value sets the maximum allowed clock skew before

> validating JWTs with respect to their creation (`iat`), not before (`nbf`), and

Author: ```suggestion
validating JWTs with respect to their authentication time (`auth_time`), creation (`iat`), not before (`nbf`), and
```

expiration times (`exp`).

`aud`::

> (Required, String) Indicates the audience that the ID token is for, expressed as a 

Author: ```suggestion
(Required, String) Indicates the audiences that the ID token is for, expressed as a 
```

comma-separated value (CSV). One of the values must be an exact, case-sensitive
match to any of the CSV values in the `allowed_audiences` setting.

`exp`::
(Required, integer) Expiration time for the ID token, expressed in UTC
milliseconds since epoch.

`iat`::
(Required, integer) Time that the ID token was issued, expressed in UTC
milliseconds since epoch.

`iss`::
(Required, String) Denotes the issuer that created the ID token. The value must
be an exact, case-sensitive match to the value in the `allowed_issuer` setting.

`nbf`::
(Optional, integer) Indicates the time before which the JWT must not be accepted,
expressed as UTC milliseconds since epoch.

`auth_time`::

> (Optional, integer) Time when the user authenticated using the ID token,

Author: ```suggestion
(Optional, integer) Time when the user authenticated to the JWT issuer,
```

End-user authentication does not use ID Token. 

Timing in OIDC grant flow might help:
1. End-user talks to RP (front-end app), but RP redirects the end-user to authenticate to OP.
2. End-user authenticates to OP, which issues a grant code at `auth_time` (ex: UUID=timestamp+random_bytes).
3. End-user gives grant code to RP, RP gives it to OP, and OP issues JWT at `iat`.

Another way of thinking about these times:
- `auth_time` is when the end-user authenticated to the OP
- `iat` is when the RP authenticated to the OP (i.e. send the grant code to the OP, and receive the JWT)

expressed as UTC milliseconds since epoch.

[[jwt-validation-es]]
===== Payload claims validated by {es}
{es} validates the following OIDC ID token claims.

> NOTE: {es} doesn't validate `nonce` claims, but a custom JWT issuer can add a

Author: This note makes more sense in the OIDC claims section, not the Elasticsearch section.

* `groups` claim: JWT claim in the form of a comma separate list is used as the {es} user's groups list value.
* `metadata` claims: JWTs claims in the form of strings, numbers, booleans, and collections are used as the {es} user's metadata, formatted as `metadata.jwt_claim_<key>` = `<value>` pairs.

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

===== Example JWT Realm Role Mapping Rule

Example JWT realm role mapping rule.

[source,console]
----
PUT /_security/role_mapping/jwt1_users
{
  "roles" : [ "user" ],
  "rules" : { "all" : [
      { "field": { "realm.name": "jwt1" } },
      { "field": { "username": "principalname1" } }
      { "field": { "dn": "CN=Principal Name 1,DC=example.com" } }
      { "field": { "groups": "group1" } }
      { "field": { "metadata.jwt_claim_other": "other1" } }
  ] },
  "enabled": true
}
----

===== JWT realm authorization via authorization delegation

.If Delegated Realms are used for authorization, this claim is available for roles lookup.
* `principal` claim: JWT claim in the form of a string is used as the {es} user's principal value.

See <<ref-jwt-settings>>.

> WARNING: When Delegated Authorization is enabled in JWT realm, claims for `groups`, `dn`, and `metadata` not used for the {es} user's values.

Author: ```suggestion
WARNING: When Delegated Authorization is enabled in JWT realm, claims for `groups`, `dn`, `mail`, `name`, and `metadata` not used for the {es} user's values.
```

I think I missed mentioning `mail` and `name` here when I wrote the first draft.

[source,console]
----
PUT /_security/role_mapping/native1_users
{
  "roles" : [ "user" ],
  "rules" : { "all" : [
      { "field": { "realm.name": "native1" } },
      { "field": { "username": "principalname1" } }
  ] },
  "enabled": true
}
----

If realm `jwt2` successfully authenticates a client, and a JWT for principal `principalname1`, and Delegates Authorization to realm `native1`,
then realm `native1` can lookup that {es} user's values, including using this role mapping rule linked to realm `native1`.

[[hmac-oidc-example]]
==== JWT Realm Example with OIDC HMAC Key

These settings are for a JWT issuer, Elasticsearch, and a client of Elasticsearch.
The example HMAC key is in OIDC HMAC compatible format; key bytes are UTF-8 encoded UNICODE characters.

WARNING: HMAC UTF-8 keys need to be longer than HMAC random byte keys to achieve same key strength.

[[hmac-oidc-example-jwt-issuer]]
===== JWT issuer

These values are for a bespoke authentication service which issues JWTs; external to {es}.

[source,text]
----
Issuer:     iss8
Audiences:  aud8
Algorithms: HS256
HMAC OIDC:  hmac-oidc-key-string-for-hs256-algorithm
----

[[hmac-oidc-example-jwt-realm]]

> ===== JWT realm clear settings

Author: ```suggestion
===== JWT realm static settings
```
Should we change `clear` to `static` here for consistency?

Fabio clarified yesterday that the [realm settings](https://elasticsearch_85189.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/security-settings.html#ref-jwt-settings) reference page calls settings `static` vs `secure`.

Reviewer 2: What does "clear" means here? Could the header just be "JWT realm settings" instead?

Reviewer 3: I think that **JWT realm settings** works here.

These settings are for elasticsearch.yml.

[source,yml]
----
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.order: 8
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.allowed_issuer: iss8
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.allowed_audiences: [aud8]
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.allowed_signature_algorithms: [HS256]
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.claims.principal: sub
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.client_authentication.type: shared_secret
----

===== JWT realm secure settings

These settings are for elasticsearch-keystore.

[source,yml]
----
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.hmac_key: hmac-oidc-key-string-for-hs256-algorithm
xpack.security.authc.realms.jwt.jwt8.client_authentication.shared_secret: client-shared-secret-string
----

===== JWT realm role mapping rule

> These settings are for {es} role mapping rules for realm `jwt8` user `principalname``.

Author: ```suggestion
These settings are for {es} role mapping rules for realm `jwt8` user `principalname1`.
```

Reviewer 3: Already updated in a previous commit.

  allowed_audiences: [ "8fb85eba-979c-496c-8ae2-a57fde3f12d0" ]
  allowed_signature_algorithms: [RS256,HS256]
  pkc_jwkset_path: jwt/jwkset.json
  claims.principal: sub
----

`order`::
Specifies a realm `order` of `3`, which indicates the order in which the
configured realm is checked when authenticating a user. Realms are consulted in
ascending order, where the realm with the lowest order value is consulted first.

`client_authentication.type`::
Specifies the client authentication type as `shared_secret`, which means that
the client is authenticated using an HTTP request header that must match a
pre-configured secret value. The client must provide this shared secret with
every request in the `ES-Client-Authentication` header. The value must be a
case-insensitive match to the realm's `client_authentication.shared_secret`.

`allowed_issuer`::
Sets a verifiable identifier for your JWT issuer. This value is typically a
URL, UUID, or some other case-sensitive string value.

`allowed_audiences`::
Specifies a list of JWT audiences that the realm will allow.
These values are typically URLs, UUIDs, or other case-sensitive string values.

`allowed_signature_algorithms`::

> Indicates that {es} should use the `RS256` and `HS256` signature algorithms to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indicates that {es} should use the `RS256` or `HS256` signature algorithms to
```

verify the signature of the JWT from the JWT issuer.

`pkc_jwkset_path`::
The file path to a JSON Web Key (JWK) set containing the public key material that the
JWT realm uses to verify JWT signatures.

`claims.principal`::
The name of the JWT claim that contains the user's principal (username).

--

> . Store the `shared-secret` value for `client_authentication.type`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Store the `shared_secret` value for `client_authentication.type`:
```

`allowed_clock_skew`. This value sets the maximum allowed clock skew before
validating JWTs with respect to their authentication time (`auth_time`), creation (`iat`), not before (`nbf`), and
expiration times (`exp`).

`aud`::
(Required, String) Indicates the audiences that the ID token is for, expressed as a
comma-separated value (CSV). One of the values must be an exact, case-sensitive
match to any of the CSV values in the `allowed_audiences` setting.

`exp`::
(Required, integer) Expiration time for the ID token, expressed in UTC
milliseconds since epoch.

`iat`::
(Required, integer) Time that the ID token was issued, expressed in UTC
milliseconds since epoch.

`iss`::
(Required, String) Denotes the issuer that created the ID token. The value must
be an exact, case-sensitive match to the value in the `allowed_issuer` setting.

`nbf`::
(Optional, integer) Indicates the time before which the JWT must not be accepted,
expressed as UTC milliseconds since epoch.

`auth_time`::
(Optional, integer) Time when the user authenticated to the JWT issuer,
expressed as UTC milliseconds since epoch.

[[jwt-validation-payload-es]]

> ====== {es} payload claims
> {es} validates the following OIDC ID token claims.

Reviewer 2: This is pretty confusing, and not really describing what's happening here.

Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
====== {es} settings consuming claims
{es} uses OIDC ID token claims for the following settings.
```

Reviewer 3: I think that the suggested title is a little confusing. I propose **Elasticsearch settings for consuming OIDC claims** instead.

Reviewer 2: Works for me 👍
